Readme.md, before:

# Cloud-native applications and microservice architecture

Docker for the back
Create a microservice
Connect the microservice
Docker for the new microservice

## Run the back applicaiton using docker

Update the application.yml file (for windows) :
In order to do api requests from one docker container to another, you need to replace the host of the other container
by the name of the images created when using docker-compose up.
So for the etherpad microservice, it's api-etherpad-1, for the mail, it's api-mail-1 and for the database, it's api-db-1.
Thus, you need to clean your tests file because they will not work anymore because we changed the host.

Then, you can package and build the application using a dockerfile.

```shell script
./mvnw package

docker build -f api/src/main/docker/Dockerfile.jvm -t quarkus/code-with-quarkus-jvm .
```

Now you can update the docker-compose file to run the application with a single command.
Add a new service to the docker-compose.
```yaml
  doodle_api:
    image: quarkus/code-with-quarkus-jvm
    restart: always
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
```

We set the restart parameter to always because the application need the others microservices to run in order to compile.
So the doodle_api container may restart a couple of times before running correctly.

Use the following command to run the whole application. The application should be running at localhost:8080.
```shell script
docker-compose up --detach
```

## Publish the image to docker

To publish the image of api_doodle on docker to use it on remote machines, you first need to create a repository on docker hub.
Then you need to build the project with the name of the repository.

```shell script
docker build -f api/src/main/docker/Dockerfile.jvm -t [name_of_the_repository] .
```

Do not forget to update the name of the image in the docker-compose file.

Then you can push your image to your docker hub repository.

```shell script
docker push [name_of_the_repository]
```

And that's it, now you can run your application from other devices using the docker-compose file. You only need to check that the device has the rights to access your repository.

Commit message:

Add a forecast service and correct api docker hosts

Readme.md, after:

# Cloud-native applications and microservice architecture

Docker for the back
Create a microservice
Connect the microservice
Docker for the new microservice

## Run the back applicaiton using docker (for windows)

Update the application.yml file :
In order to do api requests from one docker container to another, you need to replace the host of the other containers
from ```localhost``` to ```host.docker.internal```.
Thus, you need to clean your tests file because they will not work anymore because we changed the host.

Then, you can package and build the application using a dockerfile.

In api folder :
```shell script
./mvnw package

docker build -f src/main/docker/Dockerfile.jvm -t quarkus/code-with-quarkus-jvm .
```

Now you can update the docker-compose file to run the application with a single command.
Add a new service to the docker-compose.
```yaml
  doodle_api:
    image: quarkus/code-with-quarkus-jvm
    restart: always
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
```

We set the restart parameter to always because the application need the others microservices to run in order to compile.
So the doodle_api container may restart a couple of times before running correctly.

Use the following command to run the whole application. The application should be running at localhost:8080.
```shell script
docker-compose up --detach
```

## Publish the image to docker

To publish the image of api_doodle on docker to use it on remote machines, you first need to create a repository on docker hub.
Then you need to build the project with the name of the repository.

```shell script
docker build -f api/src/main/docker/Dockerfile.jvm -t [name_of_the_repository] .
```

Do not forget to update the name of the image in the docker-compose file.

Then you can push your image to your docker hub repository.

```shell script
docker push [name_of_the_repository]
```

And that's it, now you can run your application from other devices using the docker-compose file. You only need to check that the device has the rights to access your repository.

## Create a new microservice and connect it to the former api

We created a new microservice that will give the forecast using another framework called [Moleculer](https://moleculer.services/), but you can use any microservice that you want.
Like the doodle api, we want to use docker to run our application.

```shell script
docker-compose -f api/docker-compose.yaml -f forecastapi/docker-compose.yaml up -d
docker-compose -f api/docker-compose.yaml -f forecastapi/docker-compose.yaml down
```
